README.md, before:

This repository is used as the code base for all the functionality related to the transition to the Canvas LMS.

## Automated transition and syncing of content from GitHub to Canvas

https://github.com/learn-co-curriculum/github-to-canvas/

## Moving Markdown files to Canvas

The method below was put together by us in NBIS.

### Transform Markdown to html

In order to move a markdown file from github pages to canvas, the markdown file needs to be transformed to html. That can be achieved using the docker version of `pandoc`.
The following command will mount the current folder in the `pandoc` container and transform the `<input_file>.md` file to the `<output_file>.html`:

```bash
docker run --rm --volume "`pwd`:/data" --user `id -u`:`id -g` pandoc/latex <input_file.md> -o <output_file.html>
```

### Create personal token for Canvas API

The Canvas LMS provides an [API](https://canvas.instructure.com/doc/api/), which can be used for creating/updating/deleting pages (and much more). To create a page with the html file produced in the previous step, a personal token needs to be created in the Canvas UI. Detailed instructions for creating a personal token can be found [here](https://canvas.instructure.com/doc/api/file.oauth.html#manual-token-generation).

In summary:
* Click the "profile" link in the top right menu bar, or navigate to /profile
* In the profile "Settings" under the "Approved Integrations" section, click the button to generate a new access token.
* Once the token is generated, you cannot view it again, and you'll have to generate a new token if you forget it. Remember that access tokens are password equivalent, so keep it secret.

### Create or update a Canvas page using the API

Finally, to create the page with the html file run the following command,
replacing the `personal_token` with the one created in the previous step:

```bash
curl -X POST --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal_token>' \
    https://uppsala.instructure.com/api/v1/courses/<course_number>/pages \
    --data-urlencode wiki_page[title]=<page_title> \
    --data-urlencode wiki_page[body]="$(cat <output_file>.html)"
```

If you then want to update the same page you will have to use a slightly
modified command using `PUT` instead of `POST` that only updated the body of the
specified page (notice the exact specification of the page in the URL):

```bash
curl -X PUT --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal_token>' \
    https://uppsala.instructure.com/api/v1/courses/<course_number>/pages/<page_title> \
    --data-urlencode wiki_page[body]="$(cat <output_file>.html)"
```

## Additional libraries
- https://github.com/ucfopen/canvasapi
- https://github.com/gqmaguirejr/Canvas-tools

Commit message:

Add link to workaround for embedding images from md
Link to the Tools for Rep. Research bash code for fixing adding images and customizing page width.

README.md, after:

This repository is used as the code base for all the functionality related to the transition to the Canvas LMS.

## Automated transition and syncing of content from GitHub to Canvas

https://github.com/learn-co-curriculum/github-to-canvas/

## Moving Markdown files to Canvas

The method below was put together by us in NBIS.

### Transform Markdown to html

In order to move a markdown file from github pages to canvas, the markdown file needs to be transformed to html. That can be achieved using the docker version of `pandoc`.
The following command will mount the current folder in the `pandoc` container and transform the `<input_file>.md` file to the `<output_file>.html`:

```bash
docker run --rm --volume "`pwd`:/data" --user `id -u`:`id -g` pandoc/latex <input_file.md> -o <output_file.html>
```

Trouble with embedding images / page width? [Check the code from the Tools for Rep. Research](https://github.com/NBISweden/workshop-reproducible-research/blob/canvas/pages/upload-page-to-canvas.sh).

### Create personal token for Canvas API

The Canvas LMS provides an [API](https://canvas.instructure.com/doc/api/), which can be used for creating/updating/deleting pages (and much more). To create a page with the html file produced in the previous step, a personal token needs to be created in the Canvas UI. Detailed instructions for creating a personal token can be found [here](https://canvas.instructure.com/doc/api/file.oauth.html#manual-token-generation).

In summary:
* Click the "profile" link in the top right menu bar, or navigate to /profile
* In the profile "Settings" under the "Approved Integrations" section, click the button to generate a new access token.
* Once the token is generated, you cannot view it again, and you'll have to generate a new token if you forget it. Remember that access tokens are password equivalent, so keep it secret.

### Create or update a Canvas page using the API

Finally, to create the page with the html file run the following command,
replacing the `personal_token` with the one created in the previous step:

```bash
curl -X POST --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal_token>' \
    https://uppsala.instructure.com/api/v1/courses/<course_number>/pages \
    --data-urlencode wiki_page[title]=<page_title> \
    --data-urlencode wiki_page[body]="$(cat <output_file>.html)"
```

If you then want to update the same page you will have to use a slightly
modified command using `PUT` instead of `POST` that only updated the body of the
specified page (notice the exact specification of the page in the URL):

```bash
curl -X PUT --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal_token>' \
    https://uppsala.instructure.com/api/v1/courses/<course_number>/pages/<page_title> \
    --data-urlencode wiki_page[body]="$(cat <output_file>.html)"
```

## Additional libraries
- https://github.com/ucfopen/canvasapi
- https://github.com/gqmaguirejr/Canvas-tools
